Port MASTG-TEST-0049: Testing Emulator Detection (android) (by @Vulnit) (#3607)
OWASP/mastg: demos/android/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-DEMO-0x86/MASTG-DEMO-0x86.md

---
platform: android

> title: Detecting Emulator Detection checks with Frida

Reviewer: Capitalization
```suggestion
title: Detecting Emulator Detection Checks with Frida
```

id: MASTG-DEMO-0x86
code: [kotlin]
test: MASTG-TEST-0x49

> tools: [MASTG-TOOL-0031]

Reviewer: Not needed, we have automation that can detect this.
```suggestion
```

---

> ### Sample

Reviewer: Please also fix below.

```suggestion
## Sample
```

Author: Solved in new commit. Fixed all the headers :)

The checks cover several categories (build properties, telephony identifiers, package visibility, and OpenGL renderer information).

Notes about the checks performed:

- The sample avoids `PackageManager.getInstalledPackages()` because Android 11+ requires the `QUERY_ALL_PACKAGES` permission to access the full installed app inventory. Google Play treats that inventory as sensitive and allows it only for apps with a strong, declared need. Instead, this demo uses launcher package queries and explicit checks for known emulator packages.
- The sample avoids Play Integrity checks (@MASTG-KNOW-0035) because they require Play Console configuration and server-side verification, which breaks the self-contained requirement for MASTG demos.
- The manifest declares `READ_PHONE_STATE` and `READ_PHONE_NUMBERS` so the runtime permission prompts can be shown before querying telephony values, and it includes `<queries>` entries for package visibility checks.

{{ MastgTest.kt # MastgTest_reversed.java }}

### Steps

1. Install the app on the device (@MASTG-TECH-0005). It does not need to be an emulated device.
2. Start Frida (@MASTG-TOOL-0031) on the device and run `run.sh` to spawn the app.

> 3. Open the app and grant `READ_PHONE_STATE` and `READ_PHONE_NUMBERS` when prompted, then tap **Start**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the app and grant the `READ_PHONE_STATE` and `READ_PHONE_NUMBERS` permissions when prompted, then tap **Start**.
```

4. Stop the Frida session by pressing `Ctrl+C`.

{{ run.sh }}

{{ script.js }}

### Observation

> The Frida output (output.txt) generated by executing run.sh should show runtime calls to emulator detection APIs, such as `TelephonyManager` identifiers, `PackageManager` queries, `ActivityManager.getRunningServices`, `GLES20.glGetString`, and the `Build` checks performed by the app.

Reviewer: In demos the output "shows".

```suggestion
The output shows all runtime calls to emulator detection APIs, such as `TelephonyManager` identifiers, `PackageManager` queries, `ActivityManager.getRunningServices`, `GLES20.glGetString`, and the `Build` checks performed by the app.
```

{{ output.txt }}

### Evaluation

> The test passes because Frida confirms that the app performs emulator detection checks at runtime (by triggering several functions related to emulator detection) and queries the expected indicators.

Reviewer: Since we're removing the device model from below, if present in the output you can mention it here (along with other values worth highlighting).

Author: I added information on where the DEMO was being "tested" for reproducibility, but I feel like it's not necessary unless we standardize it.

### Environment

- Android: 16 (API 36)
- Device: Android Emulator (model `sdk_gphone64_arm64`)
- IDE: Android Studio (optional; demo built with Gradle 8.10.2)

> - Frida: 17.5.2

Reviewer: We don't include this info in demos (for now at least).

```suggestion
```

---
platform: android
title: Detecting Emulator Detection checks with Frida
id: MASTG-DEMO-0086
code: [kotlin]

> test: MASTG-TEST-0x49

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test: MASTG-TEST-0x49
kind: pass
```
